# Machine learning methods in usage to assess work of the left atrium of the heart for patients after heart transplant
SUMMARY:
Note: The script works on files with "xlsx" extension (Excel's files)
1. Generating Excel spreadsheet which contains only selected columns from the original files. Additionally, rows are named after patient files from where data was sourced. (file “wybrane_dane_pacjentów”)
2. Stripping out measurement units and calculating means with standard deviation. Examination of whether or not columns include values that are not in range <mean - 2*std, mean + 2*std>. If they are outliers - replace them with a NaN. Checking the strength values in the columns. If the column does not have at least 20 values - is not added to the new spreadsheet (file “wyselekcjonowane_dane”). Of the 21 previously selected columns, 16 of them qualified for subsequent processing.
Note: It's crucial to verify any remaining NaN values after eliminating data points.
3. Creating histograms for values from columns in a new spreadsheet. (parameters bins=6)
4. Creating correlation matrixes using Pearson, Kendall, and Spearman methods (saved as a file called "korelacje"). Selecting for processing only those correlations (based on the Pearson method) whose values are out of range (-0.5, 0.5) meaning there is a strong negative or positive correlation between them. After selection only 25 correlated columns remain.
5. Creating two sets of polynomial regression plots from 1st to 10th degree. The first plots are without dividing into training and testing data. The second set has a 70% training data and 30% testing data split (which yielded better results than the 20:80 ratio due to the small amount of input data). With the second set, we also calculate RMSE, enabling evaluation of the generated plots. Both methods of polynomial regression calculation have been left for the purpose of comparing the significance of machine learning impact on the results obtained.
